Welcome to architecting modern iOS games.
My name is Dave DeLoong and I'm one
of the app frameworks evangelists.
In the previous session,
we heard a lot about the A7
GPU and its capabilities.
In this session,
we're going to be looking at the
CPU portion of that chip and looking
at what this transition to a 64‑bit
processor means for you and your games.
We're also going to be taking
a look at the iOS 7 SDK,
not at any single feature in particular,
but in general,
how you can adopt new features available
in iOS 7 while still maintaining
backwards compatibility with iOS 6.
But first, let's start with building
your games for the A7.
When we announced the A7 chip,
one of the things that people were
most surprised to learn about this
chip is that it's the world's first
64‑bit processor in a mobile device.
And when we made this announcement,
there was a lot of confusion
about why we would make a 64‑bit
chip in a device like an iPhone.
[ Transcript missing ]
All of these together mean
that recompiling your games
for 64‑bit can give you a
faster experience in your game.
You will get better performance
by recompiling for 64‑bit.
I also want to point out that the
standard that we used for 64‑bit
on iOS is the same standard,
the LP64 standard that we use on the Mac.
And so by having this common
standard between iOS and Mac,
it makes it much easier to port
your games from iOS to Mac as well.
Having this shared standard means
that we have a solid foundation
on which we can build modern games
that will last for many years.
So that's just a brief overview
of some of the 64‑bit benefits.
Let's see how 64‑bit actually
affects your applications bundle.
When we open up an iOS app or a game
and take a look inside the bundle,
one of the very first things that we'll
find is the application executable.
This is the file where all
of your code is compiled.
This is what gets launched.
But in addition to the executable file,
there are many other files.
Perhaps you might have some
interface builder files
such as NIMS or storyboards.
You'll probably have a bunch
of configuration files,
whether they're P lists or
JSON files or something else.
And of course,
you will have lots of image assets.
This is how all of our apps
look today on a 32‑bit device.
So how does this change for 64‑bit?
It's very simple.
Just like this.
Nothing changes whatsoever.
That was a trick question to see
if you were paying attention.
From this perspective,
nothing is different.
To adopt 64‑bit, you do not need to alter
any of your image resources,
none of your configuration
files will change,
none of your interface
will change at all.
The only thing that's affected
by the 64‑bit transition is
the executable file itself.
Let's take a look inside this
file and see what happens.
When we open up this file,
the very first thing at the
very beginning of this file is
something that's called the header.
Now, the header to this file describes
the contents of this file.
And it will describe what code
is contained in this file,
what devices it has been
compiled for and so on.
And so, for example,
in a standard iOS app,
this header would describe a segment
or slice of this file that contains
code compiled using the ARM view.
And this is code that would
run on an older iOS device,
such as an iPhone 3GS.
The header might also describe a slice
of this file that's been compiled
using the ARMV7S instruction set.
This is code that would run
on a more recent iOS device,
such as an iPhone 5.
And so to make an app a 64‑bit app,
all we need to do is add one
more slice to this file using
the new instruction set,
the ARM64 instruction set.
The presence of this portion
of the executable file is what
makes an app a 64‑bit app.
Now, because we are adding
more code into this file,
the app will be larger in size.
But remember that these
changes are limited to only
the executable file itself.
The main bulk of an app size comes from
its assets and its other resources.
So on the whole,
this shouldn't be a very large change
to the application bundle size.
And by having multiple architectures
in a single file like this,
it means that you only need
to ship a single application
to support every iOS device.
So let's go through the steps of
adopting 64‑bit in your games.
The very first step is to update
the architecture's build setting.
This is very trivial.
All we need to do to do this is to
open up Xcode and go to the build
settings for our target and find
the architecture's build setting.
By default, on your existing projects,
this will likely be
standard architectures.
All you need to do to make your
app compile for 64‑bit is to
change this value to standard
architectures including 64‑bit.
That's all there is to it.
It takes about 10 seconds.
The next thing you'll need to
do is update any third‑party
libraries that you may be using.
In a 64‑bit app,
all the code that executes must
also be compiled for 64‑bit.
So if you're using a third‑party library,
whether it's a game engine or perhaps a
library to link to some synchronization
service or anything like that,
that code must also be compiled for
64‑bit if you want to ship a 64‑bit app.
You cannot use a 32‑bit library
in a 64‑bit app or vice versa.
Going back to this model of the
contents of our executable file,
if one of our libraries
were not built for 64 bits,
it would be like part of
this file would be missing.
And in fact, we wouldn't even be able to
compile our applications.
So make sure that you update
your third‑party libraries.
Now, there's a very easy way to check
to see if the libraries you already
have support 64 bits or not.
To do this, we just open up terminal
and use the file command.
We pass in the name of the .A file.
Now, the file command will inspect our
executables and it will list the
contents found in that header.
And so, looking at this library here,
we can see that this is a library
that contains five architectures,
five slices, three for iOS devices and
two for the simulators.
And what we're looking for in particular
is the presence of the ARM64 slice.
If your libraries have this line,
then you're ready to go.
The bulk of your time in moving
to 64‑bit will likely be spent
fixing any of the small issues that
arise from the new 64‑bit standard.
When we talk about the
32‑ and 64‑bit standards,
they center around how
we deal with primitives.
So this is what we're used to seeing.
This is on a 32‑bit device
where chars are a single byte,
shorts are two bytes,
pointers are four bytes,
longs are also four bytes.
That should be very familiar to us all.
This is known as the ILP32 standard.
So integers, longs,
and pointers are 32 bits.
Now, the standard that we've adopted for
64 bits is known as the LP64 standard.
So what changes then are longs and
pointers and any type derived from those.
So on a 64‑bit device now,
longs are 64 bits and pointers
are also 64 bits long.
This has some advantages.
When we refer to data
types such as NS integer,
we go from being able to represent
about 4 billion possible values on
a 32‑bit device to being able to
represent over 18 quintillion values in
a single NS integer on a 64‑bit device.
CG float and other doubles similarly get
this massive increase in potential range.
Dave DeLoong: So, for example,
in your code,
you might be doing something like this,
where you're invoking a method
that has an NS integer return type,
and you're taking the value that's
returned from this method and
storing it into an int data type.
Now, as we know,
an int is four bytes long.
But on a 64‑bit device,
an NS integer is now 8 bytes long.
And last I checked, you can't put 8 bytes
of data inside 4 bytes.
It would revolutionize
compression if we could.
So what happens then is that
we lose half of our data.
The first 4 bytes of our
NS integer just disappear.
And if those bytes contained
important information,
we now have corrupt data.
We have truncated this number,
we've lost half of it,
and our data is now invalid.
So how do we fix this?
Very easily.
We just make sure that
our data types match.
If our method returns an 8‑byte value,
we should be putting it
into an 8‑byte data type.
If it returns a 4‑byte value,
we put it into a 4‑byte data type,
and so on.
Similarly,
we might be trying to copy some data
out of a primitive and into a buffer.
Now,
here we've made the assumption that our
longs are going to be four bytes long.
And that would have been true, of course,
on a 32‑bit device.
But on a 64‑bit device, of course,
longs are now eight bytes.
And so, again,
if we only copy four of those bytes,
we'll have lost half of our number.
And our buffer will end
up containing garbage.
So instead of assuming that we
know the size of our data types,
let's be a bit more flexible about it.
And instead,
we'll use the size of operator so that
we can dynamically refer to the size
of these data types and not base our
code on potentially faulty assumptions.
Another way that 64‑bit can
affect our code is if we're
trying to print a variable,
a data type, into a string.
doesn't have to be NSString.
This even affects things
as low level as printf.
So here we're trying to print
a long into a string and we're
using the %d format specifier.
Now, the %d format specifier
says take a 4‑byte value and
treat it as a signed integer.
Of course, as we've just learned,
longs are now 8 bytes.
And so if we were to try and
print an 8‑byte long using the
%d modifier into the string,
we would end up printing only
four of those bytes and would end
up with garbage in our string.
So again,
let's use the correct format specifier,
%ld,
for a long integer so that our string
will contain the correct value.
There's a single rule to
deal with all of these,
and it's simply the idea of consistency.
Let's be consistent in how
we refer to data types.
If our methods return an 8‑byte value,
let's store it into an 8‑byte variable.
Let's make sure that we're not
making assumptions about the
sizes of these data types either.
Let's use the size of operator instead.
Finally,
let's make sure that we're consistent
between the format strings that
we use and the variables that
we're trying to print into them.
So that's how 64‑bit will
affect our code in our games.
It will also affect the
data that we write to disk.
If we consider sharing
data between devices,
many of your users will
have 32‑bit devices,
but many of them will have an
iPhone 5S or an iPad Air and thus
be running on 64‑bit devices.
And so we're going to
be using 64‑bit devices.
So if you do any peer‑to‑peer
communication or even any communication
between the device and a server,
you need to make sure that you're
accurately representing the data
that is going between these devices.
If you take an NS integer, for example,
and try to send it from a 64‑bit
device to a 32‑bit device where
it's also treated as an NS integer,
then you will deal with these
exact same problems of truncation
that we just talked about.
You may be thinking, well,
this doesn't affect me.
My game has no server communication
and it doesn't do any sort of
peer‑to‑peer or local game play,
so I don't have to worry about this.
Well, that's not quite true.
Because even if your game is
only writing files to disk,
you still might run into this problem
when you consider the scenario of
restoring a device from backup.
Let's consider one of your users.
This user has an iPhone 4.
It's a couple of years old.
They've been very happy with this device.
They've been running your games on it.
Your games have been
writing data out to disk.
This user has been backing
this device up to iCloud.
This iPhone has been taking those files
that you've been creating on a 32‑bit
device and saving them to iCloud.
Dave DeLoong:
Then we announced the iPhone 5S.
Now this customer has decided they
want to get rid of their iPhone 4,
buy an iPhone 5S.
So they do this.
They get a very nice white one.
And to make the transition easy,
they decide to restore this
device from their iCloud backup.
This is a very common scenario.
And so in the process of restoration,
that same file that you created on
a 32‑bit device is now copied down
from iCloud onto the 64‑bit device.
And so again,
we are dealing with the scenario of we
have data created on a 32‑bit device,
but it's being read on a 64‑bit device.
And so we need to be flexible
in how we interpret this data.
Going back to the idea of consistency,
we need to read exactly what
we have written from this file.
If we have written a 32‑bit value,
we should read a 32‑bit
value out of this file.
And if we have written a
64‑bit value to this file,
we need to read out a value.
There are a couple of ways that
we can approach this problem.
We can establish the
policy that we will always,
only ever write 32-bit
values to this file,
regardless of whether it's
a 32- or 64-bit device.
Or we could take the opposite approach,
that on every device,
we will always be writing 64-bit values.
So long longs, doubles, and so on.
And we will always be
reading 64-bit values,
again regardless of what
kind of device we're on.
A third approach that
you could take is to,
again, be more dynamic about it.
In addition to whatever
data you write to this file,
you could also include
some metadata that,
perhaps,
this file contains 32-bit values.
And then as you read in this file
on either a 32- or a 64-bit device,
that you correctly interpret this file
by looking at this metadata and saying,
"Aha, it contains 32-bit values.
I will read 32-bit values."
Or perhaps it contains 64-bit values.
And you, again, you read what you write.
And when you read what you write,
you avoid those same
problems of truncation that
arose earlier in your code.
So this is how 64-bit will affect
data that you write to disk.
64‑bit will also affect the
memory usage of your games.
Now,
because pointers have doubled in size,
you will end up using more memory.
That is unavoidable.
You all use pointers.
There's no escaping pointers,
whether for good or for evil.
You cannot escape them.
And you may think that to avoid
the penalty of doubling the
size of all of those pointers,
that you're just going to
keep your app as a 32‑bit app.
And that sounds really nice.
Except there's a problem.
And the problem arises from what gets
loaded into memory when a 64‑bit device
tries to launch a 32‑bit application.
So let's consider the amount of
memory that we have on an iOS device.
This gray box will represent our RAM.
Now, loaded into memory, of course,
is the operating system itself.
The device has to run.
And the operating system will also
load many helper applications so that
it can connect to iCloud and download
your email or connect to iMessage
or any number of other services.
So system applications
take up memory as well.
One of the other things we load
into memory is something we call
the shared frameworks cache.
The shared frameworks cache is
a single copy of the standard
application frameworks.
So UIKit, foundation, core foundation,
CF network, so on.
They're packaged up as a
single binary and when the
device launches and starts up,
we load this cache into memory such
that when we launch other applications,
instead of having to give
them their own copy of UIKit,
we load it into memory.
We can simply point them at
the shared cache and say,
there's your copy over there.
Use that one.
I want to emphasize on a 64‑bit device,
the shared frameworks cache that
gets loaded is of course the 64‑bit
version of the system frameworks.
As we learned a few minutes ago,
a 32‑bit app cannot use 64‑bit libraries.
So when we launch a 32‑bit
application on a 64‑bit device,
we have to load a second copy
of the system frameworks.
And only after we load a second copy
of the frameworks can we actually
load a 32‑bit app into memory.
Loading a second copy of the frameworks
means that you are now much more
likely to run into a situation where
the device is running out of memory.
This is not what we want to have happen.
Because when we run out of memory,
apps start getting killed.
And eventually, if things get bad enough,
your app might get killed as well.
So let's avoid this problem.
And the way that we avoid it is,
of course,
by compiling our apps for 64‑bit
and therefore not incurring
the penalty of loading the
32‑bit copy of the frameworks.
So that's one of the ways that 64‑bit
can affect our app's memory usage.
But 64‑bit can also affect our
app's memory usage in another way,
and that has to do with the
alignment of primitives.
So this is a very similar table
to the one we saw earlier,
but this instead refers to
where data starts in memory.
So on a 32‑bit device,
you could have a char start at
every single byte offset in memory.
But for things like longs or pointers,
they naturally only start
every four bytes in memory.
So, for example, at offset zero or offset
three or offset seven.
And it would be very unnatural
for them to start at offset one.
On a 64‑bit device,
these alignments change slightly.
So, again, longs and pointers,
instead of being aligned
on a 4‑byte boundary,
are now aligned on an 8‑byte boundary.
Now, this might be not very easy
to intuit what this means.
So let's take an example of
dealing with a custom struct.
Many of you probably have structs in
your games to efficiently represent
data that you're passing around.
We've got a simple struct
here that contains two chars,
an int, and a pointer.
On a 32‑bit device with this layout,
These 10 bytes of data actually
take up 16 bytes of memory.
Because our first char can be
aligned on a one‑byte boundary,
but our int has to be aligned
on a four‑byte boundary.
So in between our char and our int,
there are three bytes of padding.
And again,
after the second char and the pointer,
there are again three bytes of padding.
So already on a 32‑bit device,
we've got six wasted bytes of space.
On a 64-bit device,
a couple of things happen.
First off, of course, as we know,
our pointer will double in size
because pointers are now 8 bytes long.
But also, pointers are now aligned
on an 8‑byte boundary.
So what this means is that instead
of having 3 bytes of padding
after that second char member,
we now have 7 bytes.
So this struct,
which now takes up 14 bytes of data
or only contains 14 bytes of data,
is actually taking up 24 bytes of memory.
So each instance of this struct
has 10 wasted bytes of space.
Now, there are two approaches that
we could take to solving this.
The first one is called packing.
And what packing does is this
indicates to the compiler,
do not insert those
extra bytes of padding.
adding.
So that our struct representation
in memory would look like this.
But spoiler alert,
you don't want to do this.
And you don't want to do this
because the CPU still has to align
this data in order to read it.
So, for example,
if the CPU wanted to read the
pointer out of this struct,
it would still have to copy this struct's
contents into a new block of memory,
realign it so that things are
aligned on their natural boundaries,
and then it could read the
pointer data out of the struct.
That's a lot of extra work that
the CPU should not have to do.
So you should really avoid packing
structs like this if you at all can.
So this is the first way
you can solve this problem,
and it's probably not the best way.
So the other way that you can do
it is instead by rearranging the
members of your struct like this.
By rearranging the members of the struct,
we can efficiently pack the data
in our structs in a natural way.
And the secret here is to simply order
the members of our struct by size.
Order them from largest to smallest.
And by ordering them
from largest to smallest,
the members of the struct will naturally
align to their proper boundaries
with almost zero wasted space.
And in many cases,
with no wasted space at all.
And so on a 64‑bit device,
as we're dealing with
these 14 bytes of data,
in a properly organized struct,
it will take up exactly 14 bytes of data.
On a 32‑bit device, it would take up only
the requisite 10 bytes.
So this is another way that 64‑bit
can affect your app's memory usage.
If you're dealing with custom structs,
make sure that you've organized them
properly so that you are using your
memory as efficiently as possible.
So that's a quick overview of some
of the issues that might arise as
you adopt 64‑bit in your games.
Now the final thing that you'll want to
do is of course to test these changes.
By making these changes to the data
types or perhaps even to the organization
of the structs in your games,
you are necessarily altering
the behavior of your game.
And it behooves you to test these
changes to make sure that they
do exactly what you intend to,
especially when it comes to
reordering those structs.
If you have structs that have been
simply serialized directly to a
byte stream and then saved to disk,
you need to make sure that you correctly
read those back in in the old order
before transforming them into their
new more efficient organization.
This is where things like continuous
integration and unit testing can make it
really easy to verify that the changes
that you have made to your games are
correct and do exactly what you want.
So that's a summary of 64‑bit on the
A7 and what it means for your games.
We have a really excellent piece
of documentation called the 64‑bit
transition guide for Cocoa Touch.
It goes into a lot more detail than
I just did on all of the changes that
64‑bit means for iOS applications.
And it even deals with some of
the more esoteric corner cases,
such as how you properly
deal with function pointers
that take variadic arguments,
which we figured that
most people wouldn't.
wouldn't need to know about,
but it's still important.
Now, this might sound like a lot of work,
but if you've been doing everything
that you're supposed to have been doing,
if you haven't been making assumptions
about the sizes of data types,
and if you've been consistent
in how you refer to data,
then this transition should actually
be extremely straightforward.
As we've worked with many of you and
other developers in adopting 64‑bit,
overwhelmingly, the reaction has been
that this is pretty easy.
We've even heard some stories of
developers being able to do this full
transition in as little as five minutes,
although that is kind of an ideal case.
It will probably take
you a little bit more,
but hopefully not too long.
So that was a quick look at
the A7 and how you can take
advantage of 64‑bit in your games.
Let's move on now to building
your games for iOS 7.
Whenever we introduce a new SDK,
one of the big questions that many
developers have is how they can
use all of the great new features
of this new operating system but
still support older versions.
Literally this question.
How do I use iOS 7 features
but still support iOS 6?
And there's a lot of misinformation out
there about how you actually do this.
And many developers,
but I'm sure none of you,
are under the assumption that you can't.
That if you want to support iOS 6,
that you still must
compile with the iOS 6 SDK.
And if you wanted to use things
like game controllers or the
new background download API,
that you're just kind of out of luck.
Or that it would be way too hard to
try and bifurcate your app's logic
so that it can handle both cases.
Well, in this part of the talk,
we're going to learn that
it's possible and it,
in fact, is quite easy to do this.
So let's answer this question.
How do we support iOS 7 while
still maintaining backwards
compatibility with iOS 6?
There are two parts to this answer.
And the first part is, of course,
we must use the iOS 7 base SDK.
If you want iOS 7 features,
got to use the iOS 7 SDK.
That's easy.
The second part of this
answer is in your code,
before you want to use new
API like perhaps game controllers
or these background downloads
that I've been talking about,
you first want to check to see
if they're actually present.
If they are, great.
If they're not, well, then, of course,
don't try to use them.
So we've identified five main
categories of features that we
introduce with each new SDK.
They center around new frameworks
and therefore new classes,
new methods on existing classes,
new capabilities to
hardware and software,
new designs,
and as we've just learned about,
new architectures.
So how do we adopt a new framework?
In iOS 7,
we've added a couple of new frameworks
like SpriteKit and Game Controller.
I imagine many of you would be
interested in adding support for
Game Controllers to your applications.
You'll hear a lot more about how you
actually do that later this afternoon.
The summary, though,
is of course that we're going to
end up linking the game controller
framework into our target.
And when we add the game controller
framework to our link binary
with libraries build phase,
by default,
this is going to be a required framework.
And what that means is that our
application would refuse to launch if
the framework is not present on the
hosting device because it's required.
So in this case,
by requiring game controller,
we have effectively set our
deployment target to iOS 7.
Regardless of what the actual
setting is in our build settings,
if we require game controller,
our app will only ever run
on iOS 7 because it would
refuse to launch on iOS 6.
That's not what we want.
So what do we do?
Well, we simply click that little
required pop up over on the right.
change the framework to be optional.
Now,
by making this framework be optional,
we are indicating that our app is
able to handle the game controller
framework not being present.
And so if it's not there,
we should still continue
to launch anyway.
Now, some of you perhaps are not using
Xcode to compile your games.
And even if that's the case,
you can still take advantage
of these optional frameworks.
Instead of using the dash
framework flag to link in the
framework at the linking phase,
you would simply use the dash
week underscore framework flag.
And that's how you indicate that
a manually compiled framework or
manually compiled app should weakly link
against the game controller framework.
But what does this mean for your code?
Here's a line of code we would probably
be using if we were trying to use the
game controller framework and we want
to support wireless game controllers.
On iOS 7, this of course will work great.
But what about on iOS 6?
Well, when your application starts up,
one of the things that we do
is called symbol resolution.
And as your application loads,
we're going through and we're seeing,
okay,
you're using the UI application class.
That's over there.
You're using UI view.
That's also over there.
You're using NSString.
Well, that one's over there.
And we go through and we match up the
symbols indicated in your executable
with where they're actually living at in
memory in that shared frameworks cache.
But what about when the
symbol doesn't exist?
Well, since we indicated that the game
controller framework was optional,
we just simply make
that symbol be nothing.
It's nil.
And I hope you all know
that in Objective C,
it is totally safe to
send messages to nil.
We will not throw an exception.
Your app will not crash.
This code works great.
In fact, it just does nothing.
So if we want to use that
line of game controller code,
then we can just use it as is with no
modifications on both iOS 6 and iOS 7.
Just like that.
But there are times when this
conversion to nil can have
some unintended side effects.
So for example,
here's another part of the
game controller framework.
We need to listen to a notification
for when we've actually
connected to a controller.
This is how we would do that
on iOS 7 by registering with
NS Notification Center under that
appropriate notification name.
But as we just learned,
on iOS 6 when our app gets loaded,
that GC controller did connect
notification symbol resolves to nil,
which means on iOS 6,
our code becomes this.
Where we're registering
for a nil notification name
coming from a nil object.
Now,
that might not sound like a bad idea,
but it actually has some
unintended side effects.
And what happens is when you register
for notification from NS Notification
Center for any notification,
so therefore a nil notification
name coming from a nil object,
we will notify you about
every single notification.
Any notification name
coming from any object.
That's what that means.
What it means in practice is
that as your app starts up and
as your app continues to run,
we will spam your observer with
thousands of notifications.
So this is probably not what
you want to have happen.
It's a bit overkill.
So instead,
we need to check to see if the
feature we want to use exists.
We do that by checking to see
if the symbol itself is non‑nil.
We do that simply by taking the
address of the notification name
constant and checking it against null.
If it's non‑null,
then we know that the symbol
exists and we can safely use it as
the name of our NS notification.
So this side effect of converting
symbols to nil is a great way
to check if frameworks are
present or if new classes exist.
If you're using a new class,
whether it's in a well‑established
framework like UIKit or a brand
new framework like SpriteKit,
if that class does not
exist on that iOS device,
it will also become nil and you
can easily test for that as well.
So this is how we adopt new
frameworks and new classes.
Thank you.
On iOS 7, we've added some API called
UI Motion Effect that allows us
to add that parallax effect that
you see on the iOS 7 home screen.
It's really easy to add
this to your own views.
We're not going to go into
exactly how you want to do that.
If you want to know that,
you can check out some videos from
WWDC or perhaps some of the videos
from the Apps Day tech talks.
Regardless,
the way that you add a motion effect to a
particular view is using this new method
on UI View called Add Motion Effect.
Now, UIView is obviously a class that
has been around for a long time,
so we can't check to see
if the UIView class is nil.
And so we can't check to see if the
add motion effect method is nil either.
So maybe we just try
to execute this code.
Well, on iOS 7 that would work,
but on iOS 6 we would crash.
Not the best user experience.
So instead, we need to check to see if
the method itself exists.
And we do that using a special
method on every NS object
called responds to selector.
Response to selector is a great way
that you can check to see if any method
at all exists on a particular object.
So here we're going to check
to see if our UI view has a
method called add motion effect.
If it does, then it's safe to call it.
And if it does not,
we obviously shouldn't.
So using the response to selector
check is the best way to adopt new
methods while still maintaining
backwards compatibility with
older operating systems where
those methods may not be present.
So adopting new capabilities.
What do I mean by a capability?
A capability is something that is not
necessarily tied to any particular
version of the operating system itself.
So for example, with the new M7 motion
coprocessor in the iPhone 5S,
You have the ability to
know whether the user is,
for example,
walking or standing still or running
or perhaps even in an automobile.
You can even count
their steps if you like.
But this is a capability that is
only available on the iPhone 5S.
It is not a feature for iOS 7 in general.
And so if you were riding a
game that took advantage of this
ability to track the user's motion,
then you would need to check
if this capability exists.
Because if you tried to use
motion tracking on an iPhone 4,
it wouldn't do anything,
even though it's running iOS 7.
And so when we add new
capabilities like this,
we also add, via API,
a way to check to see if
this capability is present.
So for motion tracking,
it's the isActivityAvailable class
method on CM Motion Activity Manager.
There are all sorts of corresponding
checks for various other system
capabilities such as whether or
not you're able to send email or
whether or not certain kinds of
regions are available for monitoring.
You can even check to see if you
can print or if iCloud is enabled
with the NS file manager API.
Most of these methods simply
return a convenient Boolean and
so they're very easy to use as
the condition for an if statement.
So in this example,
if we wanted to use motion
tracking in our games,
we simply check is motion
tracking available and if it is,
then let's create our
motion activity manager.
If it's not, don't try to use it.
So this is how we can safely adopt new
capabilities while still maintaining
backwards compatibility with iOS 6.
Next up, new designs.
In iOS 7,
we have added a brand‑new design
language to the operating system,
emphasizing the user's
content over everything else.
And you may have decided
that in your games,
you want to have a different look
on iOS 7 than you do on iOS 6.
So what's the best way to check
to see which look you should use?
We've seen some developers do things
such as take the system version
string and try to interpret it.
And then compare it
to something like 6.1.
But there's a better way to check
the operating system version number.
And that's using a constant in
the foundation framework called
the NS foundation version number.
[ Transcript missing ]
Finally, adopting new architectures.
Some of you might want to take extra
advantage of the A7 CPU and GPU and
perhaps hand optimize some assembly code
or simply guard some code that's only
supposed to run on a 64‑bit processor.
The easiest way to do that is by actually
effecting the compilation of your games.
We learned earlier about how
our code is divided up into
slices in our executable file.
By using these sorts
of compiler directors,
we can indicate which slice
we want our code to end up in.
And so by using this pound if
underscore underscore LP64 directive,
we can indicate that we have code
that should only end up in the
64‑bit version of our executable.
And thus will only ever
run on a 64‑bit device.
Of course, conversely,
we can indicate that some code
can only run on a 32‑bit device.
This is not perhaps the most
common thing to want to do,
but if this is what you are
doing in your application,
this is the best way to isolate
code to only run on a 64‑bit device.
So these are the ways that
we check for new features.
We can check to see if symbols are nil.
We can check to see if
certain methods exist.
We can look at the capabilities
APIs to see if things like printing
or motion tracking are available.
We can check the foundation version
number to see what version of
the operating system we're on.
And we can also use compiler
directives to indicate that some
code should only work on a 64-bit
device or only on a 32-bit device.
So there are lots of different
kinds of checks that we can use.
But I now want to talk
about hiding these checks.
Because we could just put these
checks anywhere in our code.
But if we were to do that,
just scatter these checks everywhere,
we would quickly end up with
code that is kind of messy.
That as we're reading it,
we've just got branches
that go everywhere of,
oh, if I'm on a 64-bit device, do this.
If I'm on a 32-bit device, do that.
But on 64-bit,
check to see if motion tracking
is available and if it is.
Just all of these permutations
that would infest our code.
And code that has logic like
that is not fun to work on.
It is complicated and messy,
and it is difficult to understand.
So let's talk now about how we
can successfully encapsulate these
feature checks and hide them from
all other parts of our application so
that only the parts of our app that
have to know about it actually do.
The first pattern I want to talk
about is called class clusters.
If you haven't heard this term before,
it's pretty easy to understand.
The idea behind a class cluster is
that we have a class that has a single
interface but multiple implementations.
This is not some heretofore
unknown behavior of Objective C.
It's really just private subclasses.
We call this pattern class clusters.
And you've all used class clusters.
Anytime you've used an NSString or
an NSArray or even a UIButton,
you've been using a class cluster.
And what we do is we look at
how you're using this object.
And we change the implementation of
this object or perhaps just give you a
different implementation of this object
depending on how you're going to use it.
So for example,
probably most of you didn't know
that there were subclasses of
NSArray that are optimized for
holding enormous amounts of data.
It's all just an NS mutable array to you.
But under the hood,
we've got a myriad of different
implementations of NSArray that are
optimized for different scenarios.
That's the beauty of a class cluster.
You get a single interface
that's easy to understand,
but many different implementations
optimized for your use case.
So let's take a look at an
example of how you can use class
clusters to hide feature checks.
I've been alluding to this new
background download API in iOS 7.
Let's say we're writing a game where
we want to use this new background
download API and if it's not present,
then we'll default to our older
network communication stack,
perhaps NSURL connection.
We're going to create a download
controller object and this will be an
object that just performs downloads.
We say download this thing, pause that,
and so on.
And the other,
everything else in our code
is simply going to interact
with our download controller,
sending messages back and forth.
Simply pause this, start that,
resume this other thing,
what's the progress on that, and so on.
[ Transcript missing ]
It's very easy to understand.
We've got a constructor function for
making a new instance and then just some
methods to start and pause and so on.
If we look at the implementation now,
we actually really-- here's the
magic-- have two private subclasses.
One of these subclasses will be
specific to the NSURLSession API.
That's the new background download API.
And then the other subclass will
be specific to our older logic,
using NSURLConnection.
So that we could perform downloads
simply there in the process itself.
And then when we're asked to create a
new instance of the download controller,
we will check,
is the feature we want to use available?
Does NSURLSession exist?
If it does,
we'll actually allocate the subclass
that's specific to NSURLSession.
If it doesn't exist,
then we'll default to the older
API and give you the download
controller that can perform downloads
using the older NSURLConnection code.
That's all there is to it.
Now-- So we can perform downloads
all across our games and not care how
they're actually being downloaded.
Could be being downloaded in process.
It could be being
downloaded out of process.
We don't care.
We have successfully abstracted
this check to only a single
part of our application.
And what this means is that when we
decide to drop support for iOS 6,
we don't need our
NSURLConnection code anymore.
So instead of having to dig across--
every part of our application and
find every place where we were
ever using an NSURLConnection,
instead, we simply delete a few lines
of code and we're done.
Dave DeLoong:
That's how class clusters can
help hide checks related to
new frameworks and classes,
new capabilities,
even new architectures and designs.
Now, another approach that we could
take is to use a data source.
So class clusters solve
this by using subclasses,
and data sources solve
this by using composition.
A data source object would then be
another object that encapsulates
all of the peculiarities of
a particular API and then you
simply interact with this wrapper,
so to speak.
So again, now let's say that we want our
download controller to instead
of being a class cluster,
use a data source to perform downloads.
Again, we have the exact same interface
for our download controller.
That's the beauty of these patterns is
that we can change the implementation
wholesale and only one part of
our application has to change.
So here's our download
controller interface,
the exact same thing it was before.
I literally just copied the slide.
But our implementation
is a bit different.
Instead of having subclasses,
now our download controller has
a property to another object.
In this case, I've made it conform to
a TT downloader protocol.
This would be a protocol
that simply defines a start,
a pause, resume method, and so on.
And then in the construction
of our download controller,
instead of allocating a different
subclass of our download controller,
we would allocate a different
downloader data source.
If we're wanting to perform
downloads with our NSURLSession API,
we check to see if NSURLSession exists.
If it does, we can create a data source
specific to NSURLSession.
If it does not exist,
we would create a data source that
performs downloads with NSURL connection.
And then we would finish the allocation
of our download controller by saying
here's the data source to use.
Then when we ask our download controller
to pause or start or resume a download,
instead of implementing
that logic itself,
it simply turns around
and asks its data source,
how do I actually do that?
And it's the data source that implements
the peculiarities of each of those APIs.
And again, like with a class cluster,
it is totally trivial to
remove unnecessary code
that we don't need anymore.
So when we drop support for iOS 6 and
we don't need NSURL connection anymore,
we simply delete a few lines of code.
That's all there is to it.
So class clusters and data sources
are great ways to encapsulate
feature checks for new classes,
new capabilities,
new architectures and so on.
But they don't work very
well for new methods.
It's really hard to build a class
cluster around a new method.
It's gross.
Don't do that.
Instead, let's use a category.
Now,
if you're not familiar with a category,
in Objective C,
we have the ability to add
methods to other people's classes.
So, for example, in your apps,
if you really wished that NSString had
some extra methods that you needed that
were unique to the needs of your app,
with a category,
you can add those methods
to NSString directly.
And this ability to add methods to other
people's classes makes it very easy
to encapsulate method checks as well.
So let's go back to that example that
we saw earlier with motion effects.
We know that if we just invoke add motion
effect on iOS 6 that our app will crash.
Not what we want, of course.
And we also know that the correct way to
solve this is by using that response to
selector method that we learned about.
But we want to keep this
code easy to understand.
We don't want to put the
check here because that adds
complexity to this code.
We want to abstract it
out a little bit more.
So we're going to create a category
that adds a new method to UI view.
This method will be named very similarly
to the actual method that we care about,
just with a different name.
We're going to use a little prefix
so that we know that it's our method.
And then the implementation of
this performs the check for us.
does response to selector.
If it actually does exist,
then we can continue on.
If our add motion effect
method does not exist,
then we'll just drop this message
on the floor and do nothing.
So now instead of having our
response to selector checks
scattered throughout our code,
our code just looks like this.
We have our new custom
method that we use.
And now we do not have to care
whether the add motion effect
method actually exists or not.
That logic is abstract.
It's abstracted away
from this calling code,
and it is totally opaque to us.
We don't have to care.
Now you may be thinking, well,
instead of just scattering
this if check everywhere,
we've scattered this TT underscore
add motion effect method everywhere.
Isn't that kind of the same thing?
Well, not really.
This is much easier to get rid
of when we don't need it anymore.
Simply by using the refactor
rename tool in Xcode,
we can, within a matter of seconds,
remove all traces of this method
once we don't need it anymore.
We simply rename it to the actual
method it's supposed to be,
add motion effect.
This takes literally about three seconds,
and when it's done,
we can safely delete the category
because we won't need it anymore.
So categories are a great
way to encapsulate feature
checks related to new methods.
I want to close by talking about
the concept of backporting features.
Many of the things that we've
been talking about are things
that can be easily approximated
on an older operating system.
So, for example,
the concept of downloads.
On iOS 7, we have this fantastic
background download API.
Now, we couldn't do background
downloads on iOS 6,
and it's impossible to do that yourself,
but we can get pretty close by
approximating this with NSURL connection.
We can still perform downloads,
just not background downloads.
So, in that case,
it's worth your time to invest in this.
It's best making that capability
work on an older operating system.
But I do not recommend trying
to reimplement the game
controller framework for iOS 6.
That's just way too much work.
So when it comes to
larger features like this,
It's okay to leave out support for that
feature on an older operating system.
Many of you do this already when it
comes to the performance of your games.
You fine‑tune the performance
and what effects you add to
your OpenGL views depending on
the device that you're running.
We saw, for example,
in the announcement event just
a couple of months ago how
Infinity Blade takes advantage of this.
On an iPhone 5S,
they're able to add a lot more
effects to that dragon they demoed
because the GPU can handle that.
They, of course,
would not add those effects to the
same game running on an iPhone 4.
We can take the same approach
with the features and
capabilities of our application.
If it's worth our time to invest
to make that feature work on
an older operating system,
great.
If it's not, let's move on.
Dave DeLoong So that's a look at
how we can adopt new features of the
iOS 7 SDK while still maintaining
backwards compatibility with iOS 6.
You need never ask that question again.
How do I adopt new features?
You can do it.
It is easy,
and you can do it while still keeping
your code absolutely beautiful.
Dave DeLoong Thank you all for coming,
and I hope you have a
great rest of the day.